Let's start setting the scene of fermentation.
Basically, if you look at fermentation,
the major amount of fermented product and ingredients
that you find in the world are made either
by bacterial fermentation.
And those are usually bacteria that
lead to acidification of a product, like in a dairy
product, or you have yogurt or cheese
that has been made as a result of lactic acid
bacteria in the fermentation.
Also in sausage, you have lactic acid being formed,
just to increase shelf life of all these terrible food
products.
And another type of fermentation is where you use yeast,
and that is to produce alcohol, which also
leads to longer shelf life of perishable materials.
But it also leads to formation of gas, CO2,
and that's part of the bread-making process, where
also yeast are used, but then the alcohol is not there.
That is the CO2, which leads to the more fluffy structure
of the product.
So those are the typical examples.
And there are many, many different products
around that are all used.
This is basically the principle of the fermentation.
So this is what it looks like.
If you put it on a simple scheme,
you have a microorganism that converts sugar rapidly,
either in organic acids, that can be lactic acid.
That's for all these dairy products, very relevant,
but can also be things like propionic acid or acetic acid.
For instance, in vinegar, that's also a fermentation process.
But then you get lactic acid, but acetic acid
has the acid being formed.
And then you have other types of fermentation
leading to ethanol production.
But all sugar is the basis.
Organism needs energy to grow.
But in the meantime, it excretes all these components,
which play a major role in these food products.
So now, if you look at some of the benefits
of these food fermentations, there's
actually more happening than only production
of these primary products, like organic acids and ethanol.
They contribute to a preservation.
But there's also other things happening,
like usually in most of the food stuffs that you ferment,
there's also protein, almost always there's some protein.
Protein is then idolized by this microorganism.
They need also amino acids to be taken up.
But during this process of amino acid production
and also conversion, many things happen
like they convert it into vitamins,
or they make flavors out of these components.
In some cases, they, besides these organic acids and ethanol,
they may offer very specific antimicrobials
that inhibit their competitors in this food stuff.
And then you will see also in one of my examples
where an organism is using components during fermentation
and make oils out of it for a very long chain of fatty acids.
These are all different type of activities
that happen with different type of organisms involved
in these processes.
And that gives some additional benefits
to this whole process of food fermentation.
That makes it very valuable.
And that's also how very interesting industrial processes
can be developed based on all these natural processes
taking place in these organisms.
So what I will do, because this is a broad field,
so many things that you can cover,
I've taken a few examples out where
some kind of modeling exercise has been used, basically,
to support development or improve the production process.
And one is about a different growth aspect of one
very commonly used lactic acid bacteria,
as we talked about in the program.
I have a more specific example about a flavor product
that is being formed also by one type of lactic acid bacteria.
And then I will go into this topic of oil production.
So that's the company that I work for now.
And also, we want to increase production of oils
by this yeast.
And then I will have, at the end,
I briefly will cover also a type of modeling
that we are involved with.
It's about business.
It's about how do you get your best business
case out of the process, also involving a model.
And I just want to repeat what Felipe was saying.
So if you are losing me or you have a very, well,
I'm not even an urgent question.
Any question, please don't hesitate to interrupt.
Makes it more likely for everybody.
OK, so I go now into this first topic.
This is about growth.
And actually, there's also a preservation site info.
Preservation.
This is about a lactic acid bacteria
called narco-bacillus montanum.
And this is an organism growing on all kinds of foodstuffs.
You find them everywhere.
And it's also used in many beneficial fermentations
like sauerkraut, in olives, lots of other ones
where this organism is being used.
And nowadays, also used more and more
as a sort of natural preservative
against this happening, which I'm sure also happens
with most of you at home in your refrigerator.
This is sort of the surface of a piece of bread.
And you also see this similar thing happening
where you have fresh strawberries at home in the summertime.
And they are contaminated by fungi.
Fungi are a major problem in the food industry.
They are relatively difficult to control.
But there are some natural ways of controlling it
because there are microorganisms like this lactic acid bacteria
that produce compounds that are specifically targeting fungi.
We use that as a natural process
instead of adding all kind of chemicals to your foods,
which most of us probably don't like.
We don't like to read that on the labels.
The idea to consume that is also not so nice,
but if you were to have a natural way of doing that,
there's a big preference for everybody.
I will discuss an example of how we use the modeling tools
to improve a fermentation process,
which did not grow, which did not work optimally in our hands.
This was from a graduate student
from the Mappanine University in Research, Mark Stevens.
And he was working with Mark and Mrs. Mappanine.
And this was done in a quite undefined broth,
very complex medium.
These organisms use all kinds of nutrients and minerals to be able to grow.
And this was just a regular growth,
but the worst problem, which happened basically every time.
There was a growth delay.
It was consistent with growth delay.
And it calls, especially if you're working with such an undefined medium
with all these components.
It's difficult to just pinpoint it to one factor that is causing this.
This is what it looked like.
So you have a growth curve.
In this case, it was, I think, in a shape.
Now it's probably in a reactor where there was some steering going on.
It was sort of aerobic.
But these are fermented organisms.
They actually don't need oxygen, but they are quite oxygen-borne.
But in this case, there was consistently this delay.
And this has been a growth curve.
You want this to go more or less exponentially.
In this case, you saw that there was a delay happening here.
And then after a while, it restored again.
So there was some kind of repair mechanism in this organism
leading back to normal growth.
And if you calculate for every phase of this growth,
the growth rate, then you see an increase of growth rate,
but then a complete drop.
Then it restores again until it is more or less fixed.
So the idea of this study that he was involved in,
and that's where modeling also comes along,
is to find out what's happening.
So in this case, he took different samples
before the delay, right after the delay, during the delay,
and see if he could analyze why this organism had these problems.
And what he used was basically transcatomics problems.
So he was looking at basically the different genes
that were described under these different conditions,
and hopefully that would lead to some kind of indication
of what was going on in this organism,
especially around that period.
So one of the ideas that already was happening
even before this analysis was done,
because this was sort of an aerobic process
that was shaking going on,
there was actually even air being flushed through this culture,
it was an idea that maybe that played a role in this whole incident.
So there was already an assumption that something might be flushed out of the medium
because of this continuous aeration of the culture.
And this is already, this is a study from about 20 years ago,
or something like that,
but there was then at that time one of the first metabolic models of organisms.
So that's a model which is based on all the genes
that were identified from the genome sequences.
Also one of the first organisms actually that was for the complete genome sequence.
And this led to these type of models
where you can see basically a connection of all the metabolites
that are impossibly formed as a result of genes that are being present.
So this is all assumption based on all these genes that are present,
at least with this kind of network.
And there are of course connections to the network,
and this connection on different enzymes involved,
enzymes are all produced as a result of genes being present.
So what you can do with a model like that
is then look at the presence of messenger RNA in this case.
So let's see if it is more or less transcribed
as a result of a certain condition.
And then you do that, in this case we compare
right before the onset of the growth delay
and then when it was restored again.
We compared transcription levels of genes.
And then you can have them cover code
and you can say everything that is up-regulated in process in step two
is red and everything that is not is yellow in this case.
And then you can see that that makes any sense.
And then the codes here are basically
some of you might recognize these are typical enzymes in the glycolysis,
enolase, and you have lactate dehydrogenase
and you have pyruvate dehydrogenase
and a few others that are part of the whole metabolism of this organism.
So what we observed in this case
was that all the genes that were up-regulated
were coding for enzymes that are all producing CO2.
So they lead to some kind of decarboxylation reaction.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase goes from a C3 to a C2
and that's where CO2 is released.
And so there are several of these other enzymes
that are all leading to a decarboxylation,
so a release of CO2.
And that was, of course, extremely interesting
because then you can already start speculating.
So we see here, indeed, these enzymes here, pyruvate dehydrogenase,
pyruvate oxidase, malic enzyme,
they all result in a release of CO2.
And we also have CO2-consuming enzymes
that actually lead, that were inhibited.
Yes?
And when you say they are up-regulated,
are they up-regulated, absolutely,
compared to the four of them?
So we have this P2 phase and a P1 phase.
P2 is where growth is restored.
P1 is just before it's on the moment that it starts to be inhibited.
And P2, so in this case, the red is everything that is higher
or up-regulated in this P2.
And then we also see in yellow is the ones that are down-regulated
in P2 versus P1.
So in this case, enzymes that are actually consuming CO2
are down-regulated.
So there's even a higher indication
that CO2 is some kind of important role in this process.
Yes?
In your respect, you said how to sample during the delay
instead of just before and after?
Yes, that's in hindsight.
Yes, of course, you will.
We were already happy to be able to do that,
but that wasn't sort of in the primitive days of 20 years ago.
And nowadays, you would probably take much more samples than that.
But this is also to make the story a little bit simple,
as simple as possible.
But true, if you would do this again
or you want to be sure about your process,
you would take much more samples.
And nowadays, you can, of course,
process much more data than we did before.
So you're completely right.
So this is the hypothesis then that we need
by doing this fermentation on the aerobic condition
where we actually flush, in this case, air through the culture
that we flush out something, in this case, CO2,
leading to a growth arrest.
And then the organism reacts to it
by actually turning on some activities that produce CO2.
So then the growth resumes,
because CO2 is apparently an important factor
to support growth in this organism.
So then the prediction was,
well, if we use basically the same setup,
and we also flush our culture with gas,
which also protects CO2,
then we should prevent the growth.
That's a relatively easy experiment to do.
So that was done, and it was probably not,
it was not optimized,
but we added CO2 to the culture,
to the gas that was used for aeration,
and then we saw almost restoration of normal growth,
and there was no more major delay.
So that was a nice solution
and also a simple illustration of how these modeling tools
can actually help you in restoration of problems that you have.
So we can see a redirection of metabolism
for, so there is an internal supply of CO2,
and this is basically solved by having a genome sequence,
doing transcriptomics,
and visualizing that on a metabolic model.
So that's, let's say, one of the first examples,
at least in my experience with these kind of systems,
biology approaches to solve,
in this case, a fermentation problem.
So why am I showing you this,
what is the relevance of this lactic acid bacteria,
is that these bacteria are indeed producing not only lactic acid,
because that's their major way of metabolism,
but they also produce specific compounds that are now,
that can be empty from also, they inhibit fungi.
And nowadays, in food, all these chemicals are being used currently,
like sulfide and different nitrogen compounds
and sorbic acid and nitroic acid,
all to avoid growth of fungi.
And then we have these lactic acid bacteria,
like lactobacillus bontarum,
that have been identified to produce very specific components
that have empty fungal activity,
like certain peptides and also certain metabolites.
And they are being used more and more now
for natural protection of these food products.
And I already told you about strawberries, fresh strawberries.
Well, if you have fresh strawberries,
you will see this happening within a day, normally.
They are very sensitive to fungal contamination.
And this is an experiment which I performed actually myself,
where I actually covered some of these, or sprayed these strawberries
with some of these lactic acid bacteria that produce,
or are supposed to produce, antifungal compounds.
And there we saw that, for instance, this one here,
which we sprayed with a culture of fluid that lactobacillus bontarum,
was very much more protected than this one or this one.
So there is a clear difference and also actually works in practice.
And these are the things that I was,
and when I was doing this experiment,
I was working for the Coca-Cola company.
So they are more interested in using this also to protect their fruit juices,
for instance.
So we can add some product also from the Coca-Cola company,
and that's a huge business for them.
And they also suffer from this kind of contamination.
And they prefer not to use massive amounts of chemicals,
but they prefer to use some of these more natural compounds.
But that is, let's say, the relevance of looking at fermentation of these organisms
and how and why you want to be able to control that,
and how, in this case, a modeling approach can help you.
So that was my first example.
So the second example is about the flavor components of Coca-Cola and diacetyl.
Diacetyl is typically the butter kind of flavor.
So you see that in butter milk and butter itself.
The value of butter is actually determined by the amount of flavor that you have
with the price of butter on the market is actually quite influenced
by the amount of diacetyl in there.
But it needs to be formed.
And the best way to produce it is if you know how to produce it and if you can control it.
So it's produced in a dairy fermentation, so it's from milk.
And in milk, you have, of course, milk sugar that's being converted into lactic acid.
But actually, there's also a more oxidized product in milk, which is called citric acid citrate.
And we see that with this butter milk, but this butter flavor is actually produced
as a result of this co-fermentation of this citric acid.
We also know from, let's say, ages of experience that oxygen is needed
for the production of diacetyl in these dairy products.
We also know that the organism that is used for butter production
and also for cheese production is the lactic acid material called black and copper salamis.
And this is used all over the world as a culture to do fermentations of milk,
producing these various dairy products.
And there we know lactose is by far a major component for fermentation
that is converted into lactic acid, as well as the acidification
that happens as a result of presence of lactic acid bacteria.
We also know that this more oxidized product is also converted by the same intermediate
but then to diacetyl with flavor called copper.
The difference is that in the case of lactose fermentation,
you get this reducing in equivalents being formed in the H,
and that has to be balanced so that it's oxidized again, and then you get lactic acid.
In this case, when you do the conversion to pyruvate, there's no production of any of the H,
so that means that there's no more reduction afterwards needed,
and that is then going in the direction of diacetyl.
That is how the acid goes formed, and now we will actually want to have more control of these proteins.
Then you have to dive deeper into this organism, and then it becomes more complicated
because this organism contains quite a lot of metabolic possibility.
Lactic acid bacteria is known to do this.
We were talking about this oxidized product. We know that this diacetyl is being formed,
but we also know that under some conditions it can also produce ethanol, acetate,
they can also, in the conversion of pyruvate, do diacetyl,
also products like acetylene and acetyl lactate,
this is a C5 compound, can be formed.
That's the whole thing that you want to control.
That's where all kinds of, you can do trial and error,
try everything and see what happens, or you can do all of it.
In those days, the idea was first to do trial and error,
and that means that, well, let's take this lactic acid bacteria
and let's take the co-version out, which is the major one, which is this one.
Maybe we get much more of these interesting compounds being formed.
That is, let's say, one of the first exercises,
one of the first metabolic engineering strategies
of working with these type of organisms.
Knock out lactate dehydrogenase, so actually,
lactic acid bacteria is not a lactic acid bacteria anymore,
because it cannot produce lactic acid.
One of the nice things was that this was completely viable,
this organism grew a little bit less rapidly, but it was still doing well.
We saw, as a result, almost what we wanted is that
instead of producing this, it was producing that acetyl.
Acetylated chemically is almost identical to diacetyl,
but it has no plate, so that's not what you want, you want this.
It turned out, actually, that diacetyl is not a direct metabolic problem.
Diacetyl does actually result in a chemical oxidation of this.
We found out that you need to get a lot of this
and avoid that it goes into this direction,
and then diacetyl will be formed automatically as long as oxygen is present.
That's one of the assumptions, but it could be more complicated.
We decided to build a metabolic model.
In this case, it's a genetic model,
so we tried to isolate all the reactions that are directly relevant
and then insert all the enzyme activities and also their affinity for different substrates,
so it became really a kinetic model with all the enzymatic equations,
which was quite an exercise, because there are still a lot of steps involved,
so there's a lot of mathematics involved.
So this was then this genetic model that's for me, and I'm going to turn it off, sorry.
I hope it doesn't happen again.
Anyway, so with a metabolic model like this or a kinetic model,
you can actually look then at how different steps in your total amount of reactions
are influencing the final conversion into diacetyl.
We were lucky to have different types of organisms,
but then you can also actually predict what happens with a mutant,
which does not have active dehydrogenase,
and we also have mutants that have higher activity,
in this case of NADH-oxidating activity and also coordination.
Then you can look at the control of different steps on your production of diacetyl.
What we saw is that indeed lactate dehydrogenase has quite a significant control,
and we see that the enzyme involved in this production of this C5 compound
as C2-lactate synthase has also a significant control,
but we saw even higher control of this enzyme called NADH-oxidase.
Yeah, go ahead.
How do you read the table? What is it, like 0.9? What are these?
Yeah, well these are...
1.6, what does that mean?
Basically, 0 has no control.
Positive means that by increasing activity,
you will influence positively the amount of diacetyl being produced.
Negative means that if you increase the activity,
it will actually have a negative effect.
Is that one number? Is that a decimal point?
Or are there two numbers?
These aren't decimal points.
But these are all relative numbers.
But the higher the number is, the more control it has.
Negative means negative control.
And we were looking for something with a positive control,
so we saw this as an option here, NADH-oxidase.
And why did we see that? Because we knew that for diacetyl production,
we need oxygen anyway because it needs to be oxidized from your intermediates.
And we thought, well, apparently you have to take away this NADH
as a reducing factor because NADH leads to production of lactic acid.
And in this case, if you would oxidize it directly,
you don't need to, for instance, knock out your lactic dehydrogenase.
You can use... don't do this.
That's what was shown here.
So we actually constructed a strain.
And we actually added another factor.
We knocked out this enzyme here so that there's no more acetylin formed.
We overexpressed this NADH-oxidase.
And we saw, instead of this massive production of acetylin,
we actually saw massive production of diacetyl, in this case, directly from sugar.
Sugar is always abundantly available in all these products.
So we had a process, instead of this minor component of citric acid,
we converted to diacetyl.
We now have a process where sugar was converted to diacetyl.
So you could, in principle, make much more of this valuable flavor compound.
So that is something that has been used now also in the food industry
where they actually produce an ingredient which is high in diacetyl.
And that can be added to all kinds of products.
Not only butter, but also to cookies, where also buttery flavor is indeed a plus.
So I have a question.
Yes?
When you do those kinds of models and you have to estimate the control condition,
how do you go about the amount of constants you need to have
to be able to get the results,
actually knowing what the values of the equilibriums are,
or the affinity compounds, how many in the different uses?
The problem with these models is you have to do a lot of assumptions.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, I mean, if you really want to determine exactly all these components,
you would have to isolate all these constants from this organism, actually.
And that's not always the case.
Or in this case, it was not done.
That means if you take some of these coefficients or data from the literature,
so it will not be an exact...
It worked.
But in this case, it worked.
But I can also imagine that in some cases it will not work.
So now we go to the topic of microbial oils and fatty acids.
So this is actually a company that I work for now.
And this deals with this type of organism.
This is a yeast, but it's not a baker's yeast.
It's not a type of yeast.
It's a yeast which actually you find everywhere,
but it accumulates oil under a certain condition.
This is actually a condition where it is happening.
So you see these yeast, these are these oval shaped...
They look like quite regular yeast.
And there you have these globules of oil that are accumulated inside.
And this happens under certain growth limitations.
So actually the oil is a sort of a reserve component that it produced.
But these organisms, which they can probably...
They can reuse again when they are in need.
And this is actually the organism that we also use for our process.
Because this oil apparently, or that's what we have found out,
is very similar to the oils that you find in all kinds of oil rich crops.
Like bone seeds from the bone tree, or olive oil, or sunflower oil, or rapeseed oil.
All have almost identical structure to the oil that we found in this world.
So why are we focusing on this?
We see that actually the increase of the use of edible oils,
going for instance from bone trees, has increased tremendously over the last couple of years.
And that again has a replacement of animal fat.
Instead of animal fat, which is also considered not so healthy,
people have been focusing much more on using plant derived edible oils.
And that has increased so high and that it has led to major deforestation in tropical regions.
Where they have established these plantations for bone trees,
but also for other like coconut trees. It's a similar story.
And it leads to all kinds of actually terrible things happening.
Not only is rapidly tropical forces disappearing,
but basically this major use of these oils,
increased use also has a major effect on CO2 emissions.
Actually about two and a half percent of total CO2 emissions worldwide is a result of this industry.
So we are looking for an alternative.
And these microbial oils are certainly sustainable alternative.
We just have to show that it is possible to do it on this major scale
and needed to replace these vegetable oils.
That's where this company is going for.
The company is actually based in Birmingham.
And it actually resulted from work that I was doing as part of this lab in the university.
We said where I bumped into this organism and saw the potential.
We decided to do it ourselves.
So this is the oil that we are talking about. These are triglycerides.
So it's a glycerol molecule and then couple do that.
It's a longer chain than the acid. There are three of them.
And these three can be different.
But they are all something in the range of C16, C8, sometimes a little bit longer.
And this is actually, this is sort of the overall composition of these oils, these triglycerides.
They all contain the most well-known.
They all contain these are the major acids of C16, which is bromitic acid, C18, which is steric acid,
oleic acid, and lean oleic acid.
Those are the major ones that you find in the east, but also in sunflower and palm and cocoa butter.
And in many other plants, the right oils.
So I'll talk to the group briefly about the PhD work from, as you see recently, about our PhDs.
He's actually now working for my company.
It's good to have somebody with, let's say, a good background that will help us in development.
So she was working on platforms for producing Taylor made microbial oils.
So not only try to get as much oil as possible, but also see if you can influence the composition.
So the whole basis of our study was sort of this development cycle where you identify a process
and then see what is happening with respect to, in this case, also expression of relevant genes,
see the ones that are related to a certain property, and then try to increase the expression levels of these genes
by doing the public engineering and then test it again and see how you can improve your whole process overall.
Let's say when she started, the situation was that we knew already some factors affecting this oil accumulation.
That is what we call carbon to nitrogen ratio.
So if you have a limited amount of nitrogen available, so it's a growth limiting substrate,
then we know that they start accumulating these oils.
We also know that there was an effect of temperature and pH and in oxygen concentration.
But this carbon to nitrogen ratio was the most direct way of influencing the amount of oils we produced.
So she basically tested that and when she started out with her work for these two different types of genes,
both known to be oil accumulation.
So she did what this is basically what it looks like, so you can look at the amount of growth
and also of oil production with different strains, when it is low in nitrogen, higher in nitrogen.
You can also look at how much and what is the type of oil being producing.
You see that there are already some changes being observed.
You can also then see here the total lipid yield is increasing when you have lower amounts of oxygen,
but then it also affects the total amount of growth that you get.
So you have to find sort of an optimum in this process.
But this was also a way of finding conditions where you could actually look at differential expression of genes
and then find out which genes are actually most relevant for influencing your oil production.
So what she did was basically looking at up and down regulation of all the genes that were identifiable
in conditions where there is high oil or highest oil production and lowest oil production
and then see a differential expression and then try to find five genes that could be used for a metabolic engineering approach.
So, well, not surprisingly probably, but she found that, let's say, the genes that are related to fatty acid synthesis
or those are the longer-chain fatty acids that are part of the practice, right?
That whole pathway is up-regulated under the condition where you have this nitrogen limitation.
But that was not surprising, and so she used basically the ones that were more highest up-regulated
to see if you could individually, but also in combination, can be overexposed
and see what that does with your overall oil production.
So, well, there are some, these are different genes involved in the synthesis of these fatty acids
and she looked at individual overexpression and combination of overexpression
and then she, in all cases, she looked at what it does with oil production.
She also saw in her whole analysis of all these genes being over or expressed or lower expression
that you can actually also look at specific components like a few amino acids
and also vitamins that could have an effect on oil production.
For instance, if you add biotin, you see an increase in oil production
and towards some indications that also some amino acids were doing the same.
So, she did this for both organisms and she actually managed to get, in this case, the organism here,
which produces slightly less than 20% oil from body mass weight as a wild type
and she could increase that to 56%, so that's a major increase and it leads to a much more interesting business case
when you use that organism for the oil production.
Yes.
This was already experimental in the second part?
This is all experimental, yeah.
Actually, this was actually done, yeah.
So, in this case, it was a combination of three genes that need to be over expressed, all involved in the acid biosynthesis.
So, what I'm not going to show you now is that not only is then the amount of oil being affected
but also the composition of the oil is affected.
Sometimes those are just small effects, but these small effects can be quite influential,
especially for its application because we have seen that only a few percent change in saturated fatty acids
versus unsaturated fatty acids can lead to either a product being an oil or a product being a fat.
Both are needed for specific applications, but if you work for a customer,
they want the fat and they don't want the oil.
In the other one, they want oil and not the fat.
If this flux fluctuates and is very affected by a slight difference, you need to control that.
That is also for us a very valuable data set to see what factors aren't really having this influence
and how do you control that.
That's what the business is all about, not only getting significantly increase in oil
but also control your composition for everyday production.
So the last few minutes I will spend on this.
This is what we call a cost model.
It's an exercise called technical economic assessment, TEA.
This is basically a model that is used for the design of chemical factories
and to see if this chemical factory can cost effective.
You have to put in all kinds of parameters in there.
This is about the equipment cost, about how much people are working on the process,
what is it indeed the yield, what is the cost of the feedstock, etc.
The process that we are now developing in this company is a process based on pure sugar,
which is expensive and also not so sustainable.
We are looking at the waste streams coming from the food industry, food waste.
We are converting food waste into oil and the yeast, they need to grow on this food waste.
We need in our whole development of this process to study how this organism performs
on these different feedstocks.
Those are of course the way the conversion rates, how efficient they are in oil production,
is all part of your economic evaluation of the business case.
Many other of these processes are involved.
Luckily there are computer models that are able to cope with this
and they also provide some really relevant pricing of different types of equipment, for instance.
Then you can do that and then predict what is the cost of my product.
If I do this and put in all these parameters that we have now sort of estimated
or have actually measured as a result of our own process that is in the development.
Then you get the whole list of parameters.
I'm not going to go into detail also because it's more or less confidential,
but I'm confident that you will not use it to start off your own company, which I never know.
What I wanted to show you here is just an illustration of how you can play around with a model like this.
This model also contains a parameter for volume of fermentation.
You can put in different volumes where you can perform your fermentation and you get an indication
of what volume you need to do this to become economically feasible.
Here we see volumes that go where we use one or six or eight parameters.
Four, six, and eight parameters, all on the size of 100,000 liters.
This just gives you an indication that 100,000 liters' fermentation is the size of these upholos
that you see when you drive from ... I'm not talking about my situation.
You go from Wageningen to Leiden.
You pass in Sütterraude, where is the Anika factories, and there they have these big silos.
They're also called upholos.
That's where they do the upholos. That's 100,000 liters.
We are here talking about putting two of them, or four of them, or six of them, or maybe ten of them,
and just see what is the effect on the cost.
Then you see that if you go from ... this gets from four to eight, then you get a decrease in price.
Then you can estimate the price for your oil being produced on this size would be a little bit over a euro,
per kilogram of oil being produced.
That's sort of the price range of currently whole volumes, so that's good.
That means that if you do it at your own fermentation in your own facility, which is 200 liters,
you will not be even close.
That means that you really need that kind of facility to have a good business case
where also companies will invest in your company.
That's, of course, an issue because it's expensive, of course, to buy, to build this.
One of the things that we have done, and that's to make it, let's say, easier to reach,
is that we are working on what we call a low capex process.
Low capex means that you keep your prices for equipment as low as possible.
We do that by designing a fermentation where we do not use all these controlled reactors
that you also find here in the lab that scale it up to 100,000 liters.
No, we do it with more like a brewery type of vessel.
A brewery type of vessel is an order of magnitude cheaper than a reactor with all these controls.
That means that you have less control, but you are cheaper in price.
Then you have to sort of balance your possibilities and try to get a process
which also runs under these uncontrolled conditions to more or less optimal production.
Otherwise, it will not be affordable.
That is what we are working on.
We use these kind of models to support us and tell us where to focus on
and what parameters are most crucial.
Prices of feedstocks are also very important,
but we keep that low because we use waste.
But as soon as everybody in the world will start using waste as their feedstock,
then price will go up.
We have to be also as smart and quick as possible
to lock down major amounts of feedstock for our first factory
that the price is not going up through the roof in the future.
These are all elements and it's all supported by this kind of model.
Yes?
Sorry, the costs that we saw earlier are those for...
Those costs that you see are those for like a liter of oil or how much?
There's a liter of oil.
The foam oil price is about between 1.5 euros per liter of oil.
It depends a little bit.
There are also fractions of foam oil which are refined
and also fractionated where they take out a certain solid fraction
or only a liquid fraction and they are more expensive.
I imagine that waste is quite heterogeneous in its composition sometimes.
How do you handle that when you quantify for a high scale?
That's of course the major challenge that we have now
because we do see effects of growth performance of the yeast on the oil proposition.
You can imagine that this growth performance is affected
by the composition of your waste.
What we do now with current waste streams is that we find out what effects
and how we get at what is having this direct effect on this variation in growth.
These are usually a couple of minerals.
What we do is just add those in excess to avoid any kind of thing changing.
The rest is all about presence of sugar.
Sugar is always there.
We have to do that exercise with every new feedstock that we test.
That's why we will always have quite a big R&D group
to be able to develop all kinds of new processes in the future
for all these different waste streams that are suitable for this process.
We need to do that if we want to replace all oil.
We need a tremendous amount of these factories spread over the wall.
That's our intention.
Where are we now with this company?
We are working now for the first time with this scale of 100,000 liters.
We don't have that ourselves, so we have to go externally to do that.
We hire fermentation time at the facility, in this case in Germany.
Hopefully they do all the things good that we ask them to.
We are there, but we are not allowed to touch the machines.
We are very much dependent on the quality of these people out there.
That does not always work out perfectly.
We know that already. That's why we want, as quickly as possible,
our own demo factory that we can, for the future, also develop in-house everything.
The interesting thing is that it leads to these kinds of containers
with large amounts of oil.
We are really feeling that we are seriously now producing something.
This happened within three and a half years of the company.
We see that as relatively quick,
although we are impatient, we always want to go faster.
Because there is an urgent problem that the tropical forests are disappearing
much faster than what we are trying to achieve here.
There is some urgency involved.
I am wrapping up.
The genome scale models are definitely helpful in understanding
all kinds of microbial limitations.
In general, let's say a modeling approach can be used for improving growth.
It could be specific components like flavor, nutritional enrichment, oil production.
You can also use a mathematical model of your isolated pathways,
but as soon as it becomes too complicated, you probably run out of options.
Let's say this business model is extremely important to explain the business case
to outsiders like your future customers, but also especially your investors.
They want to see this.
Thank you for your attention.
Any more questions?
Did they ask more questions during the lecture?
No more questions, yes.
Okay.
Well, any dead case here?
